Welcome back. You are now going to tackle a much more challenging problem of
estimating both the map and the robot poses in real-world environments.
This problem is called Simultaneous Localization and Mapping or SLAM.
Some roboticists referred to it as CLAM or Concurrent Localization and Mapping.
While solving localization problems,
you assume they know enough and estimate the robot poses.
Whereas, in solving mapping problems,
you are provided with the exact robot poses and estimated the map of the environment.
Now, you will combine your knowledge from
both localization and mapping to solve the most fundamental problem in robotics.
In SLAM, you will map the environment,
giving the noisy measurements and localize robot
relative to its own map giving the controls.
This makes it a much more difficult problem than localization or
mapping since both the map and the poses are now unknown to you.
In real-world environments, you will primarily be faced with
SLAM problems and you will aim to estimate the map and localize the robot.
An example of a robot solving its SLAM problem is
robotic vacuum cleaner that uses the measurements provided by
its laser finder sensors and data from
the encoders to estimate the map and localize itself relative to it.
All right now, let's get started.